You guys all come back to the course.
So in this lecture I want to go over another strategy.
This one is actually quite common.
It's out there all the time.
You've probably seen it but you probably didn't notice it.
OK so this strategy is called Tag your work.
And why do I call it tagging.
Well actually I'm making a reference to graffiti.
Right.
Because what does a graffiti artist do.
There is right on a wall.
Tag.
But when they tag something they're not just sacred doodling they're writing their name it's always
something that has their name or their name in some weird contorted way.
So it's like tagging.
Now how does this apply to development.
Well you've probably seen this pretty much all over the place.
Anything that we make actually has at the bottom of it.
Powered by Sprint kick.
So we use that for a lot of different things our marketing access portal says powered by Sprint kick
anything we've ever built for free.
Put that the bottom.
So the way that most people use this when they're showing their freelance or their development business
is what they do is they'll either offer to reduce the price to a new client in order to tag their work
or offer free work and in exchange they get to plug themselves.
So the way to work is if you had a client that you had some reason to believe is going to have a decent
amount of traffic or the type of people that are going to see your clients work are going to be your
right customer base.
If that were the case then you might be incentivized to maybe offer them a deal lower your price a little
bit give them some cost savings or give them extra work in exchange for that you get to write your name
very subtly at the bottom.
It has two purposes one people get to see that you made it.
They associate that with you.
They can click through to your link and the other thing is actually SEO because when you do that it's
automatically a back link to your Web site.
You're not familiar at all of that SEO.
Well the largest part of SEO is how many links are pointing towards your Web site.
And so it's important that a lot of Web sites out there reference you and that's how Google tells that
your web site is probably important for a lot of people are referring to you by giving a link to you.
So in the case that you give out free work for tagging that might be the case that you don't have a
lot of clients you might have a limited portfolio and there might be some web site out there that is
just perfect for the group.
You want to go after you'd asked to tag that.
Now tagging is kind of a mixed barrel in some cases it can be very good and in some cases it does absolutely
nothing.
Typically when we do use tagging as an advertising strategy we have kind of a comprehensive strategy
around it.
We don't just say to one person we'll tag that one thing.
We try to say you know every three clients we do we'll pick one of them and tag it and just know that
maybe one out of five one of the three will create a significant amount of traffic backwards.
Now this is a strategy it's great at the very beginning and it's great if you want to do more like nonprofit
work where you want to reduce your price for something you care about and you need some justification
for lowering your price.
Once you have larger more well-established clients they're not going to want to be there you know at
first you can get away with saying hey can I put this banner out at the bottom Hey can I put this big
sentence at the bottom.
Eventually you're going to work with mid-tier clients who at most will be willing to let you have a
mention in their blog or mention yourself somewhere.
It's nonintrusive in text form and then eventually going to get to higher quality clients that it just
doesn't make sense to them to have you put your stuff on there.
It's confusing from a branding perspective and it also kind of looks cheap it looks like they owe you
a favor.
That's not really kind of the image that they want to project.
So be aware at the very beginning it's a great way of getting your foot in the door with a lot of people
you can use that in exchange for giving them a discount.
You can also offer it for free to get a discount.
Those are two pretty effective strategies.
My advice for using this strategy is only use it when you know that there are the crowd that they receive
is very specific to the client base you're going after or if it's in a scenario where you're not putting
yourself at any financial risk.
It's a really small job.
Maybe it's something that you're only using lean development hours to do.
If that's the case then taggle way.
But if it's something where you know you only have a one or two clients and you're about to take on
a third client and that's in exchange for tagging your work you might want to consider how likely you
think it's going to be successful.
Also keep in mind some fail and some are very very good.
So it's more of a home run technique you might do five tags for do nothing and one gets you know several
hundred clicks a day.
And you know two to three leads a day even.
OK you guys now run free and go tag everything you possibly can.
If you have any other questions post in the group discussion.
I'll definitely get to it.
Otherwise see the next lecture.